# FedID CG call (Pacific), 13/14 February 2023
-   Moderator: Heather Flanagan

-   Scribe:

Call-in details: see
[<u>https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/</u>](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/)

Charter:
[<u>https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg</u>](https://github.com/w3c/fedidcg)

Agenda
======

-   Administrivia

    -   Scribe volunteer(s)? Cameron Boozarjomehri

    -   Reminders:

        -   [<u>Community Group Membership</u>](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

        -   [<u>W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct</u>](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

-   [<u>R&E Info-sharing and Hackathon</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p0L2SJ19b0kjan-1wj9TCUHiQi9mJlnXYweqo2uiArA/edit?usp=share_link)

-   FedCM

    -   "We could use more procedural rigor to coordinate between implementers [<u>Issue \#431</u>](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/431) )"

-   Forming a [<u>Working Group</u>](https://www.w3.org/2021/Process-20211102/#GroupsWG)

-   AOB

    -   next call is an Atlantic call (20 February 2023) which is also a US federal holiday (consensus of the group is to cancel that call)

Notes
=====

-   R&E Hackathon:

    -   Heather: some changes for FedCM and brainstorm forming the
 working group. Meeting held Feb 28-Mar 1. That group has been
 meeting every other week since the internet TechX meeting in
 Dec. Goal to identify how to engage with FedCM work early to
 accommodate SAML, Shibboleth and ensure a decent testbed for
 IDPs and SPs. An incubator for what federation can look like.
 All open source, all excited to offer feedback and give
 proposals and feedback to FedCM working group.

    -   Sam Goto: only I will be there in person

    -   Heather: I found a gluten free bakery (Sweet Diplomacy), there
 will be many muffins

-   Becoming a Working Group

    -   https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/431

    -   Heather: Sam documented the procedural discussion with mozilla
 as an issue

    -   Sam: Primarily Fx and Chrome folks discussing ways to ensure
 development results in interoperable implementations so no one
 party is driving the discussion. As Fx/chrome implements FedCM
 and make extensions, we just wanna make sure we are on the
 same page. Link in the issue show how other WG operate.
 Community groups are looser than working group, so goal to
 have all normative changes be reviewed by 2 peers. Mozilla
 suggested we file extensions as issues instead of explainers,
 engagement for issues is lower than explainers. Github issues
 would lower the bar for feedback and get transparency over
 what is being done, and proactively working on. Will also add
 issue labels (not sure which yet) to help organize issues.
 Bump into priority queue, and request guidance

    -   Cam: For normative changes to be reviewed – two peers should not
 be from the submitting organization (it seemed from the
 conversation). (don’t want just Google only – Want Google,
 Mozilla, Apple and everyone else.

        -   Want quality over quantity – go at a slower pace, in part
     because Mozilla will be shorter-staffed for the next
     little while.

    -   Sam: blocked on normative implementations. At least 1 reviewer
 from Fx and One from Chrome (not the original submitter).

    -   Heather: one tag I’ve seen used well is “needs implementation”.
 Would that be a good signal for issues impacting IDPs or SPs
 (needs dev implementation)

    -   Sam: so for chrome, we already implemented front channel logout
 support but won’t move forward unless we can have developer
 input that it actually works as intended. Some labels I think
 we can use are

        -   Early Interests

        -   Design reviews - issues we want validation on

        -   Spec Review - Shown early interest and gathered developer
     implementation and trying to merge into spec

        -   Editorial Issues - make spec easier to process

        -   Agenda+ - for additional items

    -   Sam: If we do agree to operate under this mode, I think there’s
 some we would change, and tried getting ben to approve
 normative PRs, and we would follow that if we want that new
 mode of operation. Also using proposals directory to move
 issues, and increase engagement

    -   Heather: Thinking all the emails I get having to do with spec vs
 prototype this would help clean that up and classify things.

    -   Sam: yes to help make it clearer what each thing we are asking
 for is to simplify when/how we merge to the spec

    -   Heather: as chair I do like this, the incubation early was good,
 but adding more rigor to changes will help guide this process
 especially as we expose our work to a broader audience

-   Forming Working Group

    -   What it takes to form a [<u>Working
 Group</u>](https://www.w3.org/2021/Process-20211102/#GroupsWG)

    -   Heather: Community group can’t standardize anything, that’s what
 a working group is for. Somethings we might see happen: Garner
 more interest from Communities like Payments community, and
 others interested in Id space, A fedID working group to make
 something broader scale. Tim would be looking for a WebID
 working group in W3C. The question is “what things are
 important to us for a working group? What would we want or not
 want to see?”

    -   Vittorio: if we become a working group participation would
 probably shrink because not everyone can be a W3C member
 impacting adoption. Another consideration is that for the
 problems we deal with under our current charter, I am not sure
 if a WG is right tool for the job. Currently we tackle
 preservation, as opposed to new scenarios that we may want to
 address. Before endorsing a WG we want a clearer sense of how
 our work translates into specific general specs and that
 process. Also I can’t contribute at the same level

    -   Heather: What I imagined (brainstorming) is we follow something
 simile to PatCG and PatWG, CG works alongside WG getting more
 of the feedback to get the WG implemented

    -   Vittorio: that sounds like discussion versus implementation
 would lessen the value of the CG as the WG is driving much of
 the work

    -   Heather: Can you elaborate on the scenarios you’d like to see?

    -   Vittorio: currently the charter is focused on maintaining FedID.
 An example of a working group is WebAuth, and need to expose
 different development implementations. What would happen is
 that we would encroach on OpenID OAuth, things that needed to
 become APIs. I don’t see a clear working order for the WG. I
 never felt like if we had a working group now we could do X

    -   Heather: Web Auth worked because it was a joint effort between
 FIDO and W3C. Protocol changes handled in the WG could be
 handled by the experts

    -   Vittorio: but they built that from scratch where browsers had an
 obvious role to play. I don’t feel ID has the same benefit.

    -   Heather: so it sounds like you see an ID WG as potentially
 coming into conflict with orgs like the OpenID foundation.

    -   Vittorio: that’s the theory, but we need to see what we would
 want to do. I suspect there are things in conflict but I don’t
 see anything specific right now. Example FedID and existing
 stuff, if we form a FedIC WG, what is the outcome? What are
 the artifacts? What are their functions? I am just
 hypothesizing.

    -   Cam: My personal opinion 1) don’t want anyone to feel
 excluded, 2) want more rigorous process, 3) nice to have the
 separation

    -   Kris: personally I believe since CGs can’t work on the spec, the
 FedID WG needs to be a thing or we need another WG we can ship
 this to. This needs to have a larger scope to cover more
 cases.

    -   Sam: My opinion is that there’s already a spec that needs more
 of a formal process, especially now that we have these 2
 implementations that we can’t have in working group and need
 in community group. Personally I think we want to construct
 the process to make sure the outcomes are interoperable and
 cross browser. Need to be not just in chrome but also Safari
 and Fx. I also agree that needing to pay thousands of dollars
 just to be in the room would exclude a number of necessary
 voices. In terms of scope I also think it should be larger
 than federation, we are pulled in many directions and
 verifiable cred folks and MDL work are worth discussing. Also
 getting pulled into FIDO Alliance, and it would be ideal to
 just have one unified meeting rather than several fragmented
 ones. None of our meetings have all Browser vendors
 represented so getting all of them together at once would be a
 better guarantee of success.

    -   Vittorio: the other thing I think Sam was saying is there’s
 already a lot of ongoing ID work for other things like Auth.
 So it’s not obvious this new group would be home for like
 wallets, instead of being its own thing like CHAPPI. Not clear
 if this should go into a more generic WebID group? A
 fragmented FedID group? Would Auth get folded into WebID? I
 hear the procedural argument, but if we need more process we
 should have more process. If FedCM needs a new home, does one
 already exist? Does this call for building a brand new thing?
 IDK

    -   Sam: I believe web auth is done in WebAppSec WG

    -   Heather: I thought WebAuth was its own thing

    -   Vittorio: I know there’s 1 group just for adoption, and the spec
 may belong to someone else.

    -   Sam: [<u>WebAuthn WG</u>](https://www.w3.org/blog/webauthn/)
 spec might be in its own working group. For WebAppSec, we
 asked if FedCM was a good fit for your group and their chairs
 felt it wasn’t quite right, didn’t feel like meaningful
 overlap.

    -   Vittorio: the point was more, I think we should be thorough

    -   Heather: something that needs to happen is a write up of where
 else did you look? What is the case for a new WG and why is it
 justified over becoming part of another CG?

    -   Vittorio: Was looking at charter for WebAuthn and their scope
 seems very close to what we are looking to make a new WG for.
 WebAuthn could be a landing pad for that work

    -   Cameron: is it hard to get various WGs to merge into a larger
 WebID Working group?

    -   Heather: we could talk to the chairs of the other groups to see
 what they thing similar to with WebAppSec.

-   NextSteps for WG:

    -   Heather: I’d like to start a doc about what other WGs, CGs, and
 Standards groups are out there and if a new group is justified
 in needing new protocol access for things like working with
 OpenID and OASIS



Attendees (sign yourself in)
============================

-   Cameron Boozarjomehri (Mozilla)

-   Kris Chapman (Salesforce)

-   Emily Lauber (Microsoft)

-   Sam Goto (Google / Chrome)

-   Yi Gu (Google / Chrome)

-   Michael Knowles (Google / Chrome)

-   Vittorio Bertocci (Okta)
-   Heather Flanagan (Spherical Cow Consulting)
